.. PRSice documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Fri Jan 19 15:15:06 2018.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

PRSice 2: Polygenic Risk Score software
****************************************
PRSice (pronounced 'precise') is a Polygenic Risk Score software for calculating, applying, evaluating and plotting the results of polygenic risk scores (PRS) analyses.
Some of the features include:

1. High-resolution scoring (PRS calculated across a large number of P-value thresholds)
2. Most predictive PRS identified
3. Genotyped (PLINK binary) and imputed (Oxford bgen v1.2) data input
4. Biobank-scale unimputed data can be analysed within hours
5. Incorporation of covariates
6. Application across multiple target traits simultaneously
7. Results plotted in several formats (bar plots, high-res plots, quantile plots)
8. Empirical P-values output (not subject to over-fitting)
9. PRSet: function for calculating PRS across pathways / gene sets (user list option)

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:

   prsice
   prset

=====================
Executable downloads
=====================

==================   ============
Operation System     Link
==================   ============
Linux 64-bit         `v2.1.0.beta.linux <https://github.com/choishingwan/PRSice/releases/download/2.1.0.beta/PRSice_linux.zip>`_.
OS X 64-bit          `v2.1.0.beta.mac <https://github.com/choishingwan/PRSice/releases/download/2.1.0.beta/PRSice_mac.zip>`_.
Windows 64-bit       `v2.1.0.beta.win64 <https://github.com/choishingwan/PRSice/releases/download/2.1.0.beta/PRSice_win64.zip>`_.
==================   ============

.. note::

    PRSice-2 is currently under open beta

========================
R Packages Requirements
========================

To plot graphs, PRSice requires `R <https://www.r-project.org/>`_ (**version 3.2.3+**) installed.

[[Additional steps | Additional Steps for MAC and Window users]] might be required for MAC and Window users.

.. note::

    PRSice can automatically download all required packages, even without administrative right.
    You can specify the install directory using :code:`--dir`. For example

    .. code-block:: bash

        Rscript PRSice.R --dir .

    will install all required packages under the local directory


============
Quick Start
============

For Quick start use, please refer to :ref:`prsice-quick-start`

.. tip::

    You can also type

    .. code-block:: bash

        Rscript PRSice.R -h

    to view all available parameters


===============
Detailed Guide
===============

You can find a more detailed document explaining the input and output of PRSice in [[this page | Detailed Guide (PRSice)]]

=========================
Full command line options
=========================

You can find all command line options of PRSice in [[this page | Command line options of PRSice]]

=========
Citation
=========

If you use PRSice, then please cite::

    PRSice: Polygenic Risk Score software, Euesden, Lewis, O'Reilly,
    Bioinformatics (2015) 31 (9):1466-1468

========
Support
========

This wiki should contain all the basic instruction for the use of PRSice.
Shall you have any problems, please feel free to start an issue `here <https://github.com/choishingwan/PRSice/issues>`_ or visit our `google group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/prsice>`_.
You can help us to speed up the debug process by including the log file generated by PRSice.

=======
Authors
=======

For more details on the authors, see:

- `Dr Jack Euesden <https://kclpure.kcl.ac.uk/portal/en/persons/jack-euesden(972d61b2-89c6-4777-8969-7d88b0c0ece5).html>`_

- `Professor Cathryn Lewis <http://www.kcl.ac.uk/lsm/research/divisions/gmm/departments/mmg/researchgroups/clewis/index.aspx>`_

- `Dr Paul O'Reilly <http://www.pauloreilly.info/>`_

[PRSet](PRSet) is developed and test run by `Yunfeng Ruan <https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Yunfeng_Ruan2>`_

PRSice-2 and all new functionalities are coded by:

- `Dr Shing Wan Choi <https://choishingwan.github.io>`_


================
Acknowledgement
================

PRSice is a software package written in C++ (main) and R (plotting).
The code relies partially on that written in PLINK by `Shaun Purcell <http://research.mssm.edu/statgen/>`_ and `Christopher Chang <https://www.cog-genomics.org/software>`_.
Management of BGEN file is based on BGEN lib written by `Gavin Band <https://bitbucket.org/gavinband/bgen>`_.
We also utilize the `Eigen C++ <eigen.tuxfamily.org>`_ library.
